This directory holds the beginnings of support for OLIT widgets.

This directory has test programs for most of the OLIT widgets.  The files
show some problems that I had, but should be enough to help you get started.

The directory Xop has the source for OriRegisterAll.  I originally had to 
add some test functions to get lists to work enough to do proper layout 
without compiling (seems to be fixed in 2.5 OLIT).  
The callbacks are still useful.  Throw them out by undef'ing INCLUDEDEMOS.

This code has only been tested on sun 3 and 4.  I've never done anything for
general use so you may have some problems.  I've not been able to get a hold
of David Smyth in quite a time so this code is not supported by him nor
does he know I've finished it.  I intend to send it to him when I find him (I
belive he is in Germany).  This code has only been tested with the version
of OLIT that came with the Sun Openwindows 2.0 release.  

I've now tested this a bit with the OLIT 2.5 release.  Some of the demos
need to be adjusted, but things work for the most part.  I currently don't
have the documentation so I can't fix the problems.  This should happen
soon.  I had to diddle a bit to get the 2.5 OLIT lib to work with the
release 5 libraries.  A few symbols were made static in Converters.c that
Xol wanted to see.  You could recompile your Xt with those visible.  I
added the symbols to the Xop and Ori files so that things would link.  This
probably isn't too cool, but things seem to work.  Suggestions will
be taken!

I've added a UsingOpenwindows defines in the Wc.tmpl file so that
things will be found in the correct places on those systems.  Check
your installation to find out if you need this defined.  This adds
$(OPENWINHOME)/xxx directories to the include path and library path.

I would be interested in hearing of problems, suggestions, or improvements
you have--particularly if you get something to work that I couldn't--I'm
still learning this stuff too.

Kim Gillies
National Optical Astronomy Observatories
gillies@noao.edu
6023259246
October 3, 1991

This directory has been slightly changed for Wcl 1.06 release. The Ori.c
has been replaced with "standard" one, and some OLIT specific adjusments
moved int XopRegisterAll

Martin Brunecky
October 5, 1991
