ImageMagick, an X11 image processing and display utility, is now available
on export.lcs.mit.edu as contrib/ImageMagick.tar.Z.  It is also available in
any comp.sources.x archive as imagemagic, volume 13, issue 17.

cristy@dupont.com

---

Display

    Display is a machine architecture independent image processing and
    display program.  It can display any image in the MIFF format on
    any workstation display running an X server.  Display first
    determines the hardware capabilities of the workstation.  If the
    number of unique colors in the image is less than or equal to the
    number the workstation can support, the image is displayed in an X
    window.  Otherwise the number of colors in the image is first
    reduced to match the color resolution of the workstation before it
    is displayed.

    This means that a continuous-tone 24 bits/pixel image can display
    on a 8 bit pseudo-color device or monochrome device.  In most
    instances the reduced color image closely resembles the original.
    Alternatively, a monochrome or pseudo-color image can display on a
    continuous-tone 24 bits/pixels device.

Import

    Import is an X Window System window dumping utility.  Import allows
    X users to store window images in a specially formatted dump file.
    This file can then be read by the Display utility for redisplay,
    printing, editing, formatting, archiving, image processing, etc.
    The target window can be specified by id or name or be selected by
    clicking the mouse in the desired window.  The keyboard bell is
    rung once at the beginning of the dump and twice when the dump is
    completed.

XtoPS

    XtoPS is an X Window System window dumping utility.  XtoPS reads an
    image from any visible window on an X server and outputs it to
    encapsulated Postscript file.  You can view this file with any
    Postscript compatible viewer or printer.  The image is displayed in
    color on viewers or printers that support color Postscript,
    otherwise it is displayed as grayscale.  The target window can be
    specified by id or name or be selected by clicking the mouse in the
    desired window.  The keyboard bell is rung once at the beginning of
    the dump and twice when the dump is completed.

Animate

     Animate displays a sequence of images in the MIFF format on
     any workstation display running an X server.  Animate first
     determines the hardware capabilities of the workstation.  If
     the number of unique colors in an image is less than or
     equal to the number the workstation can support, the image
     is displayed in an X window.  Otherwise the number of colors
     in the image is first reduced to match the color resolution
     of the workstation before it is displayed.

Montage

     Montage creates a composite image by combining several
     separate images.  The images are tiled on the composite
     image with the name of the image appearing just above the
     individual tile.
