This is Version 1.6 of the Xcu Widget Set.
The Xcu Widget Set is compatible with the R5 intrinsics.
It requires the use of the MIT Xmu library.

To Make:
   0) follow the instructions in "config_file" (in this directory)
   1) use "imake" to make a top level Makefile from the Imakefile.
   2) make World

If you are using Gcc, you will want the "-fwritable-strings" compile option.
(Gcc also produces zillions of warnings.  Sorry.  I'll have most of them
eliminated by the next release.  Don't specify "-Wall")

There are some interesting programs in the "clients" directory you
might like to try:

	xhearts : the card game "hearts"
	xcell   : colorful cellular automata
	xlayout : layout previewer with many Xcu widget samples

Until Xcu is installed, you will probably find it helpful to
add wlmCompiler and clients/xlayout to your PATH environment variable.
This gives you easy access to the programs "wlc" and "xlayout".

There are some tutorial demo programs in the "examples" directory
that show you the power of the Tbl and Wlm widgets.  These are not
made by default.  You can either cd to the examples directory and
do a "make" there or in the individual subdirectories.  Or, you
can switch the comment between the two MAKE_SUBDIRS lines in the
Imakefile before doing the imake.

In the Readme.dir directory there are a bunch more README's.

    widgets    : summary of the Xcu widgets
    examples   : summary of the tutorial demos
    clients    : summary of the Xcu clients available in this release
    tbl        : a more detailed description of the tbl widget
    roadmap    : what the subdirectories are
    bugs       : how to get prompt attention if you find bugs

Potscript versions of the documentation are available via anonymous FTP
from 128.84.247.85 : pub/xcu.v1.6.ps.tar.Z.

Thanks go to Kim Gillies for beta-testing the R5 version before it went out.
Anybody using Gcc owes him a lot of thanks.

Finally, thanks to John Forrest, there is a version of XcuWlm which
allows popups and lots of other good stuff.  I hope to release it as
Xcu version 2.0 someday.

 -- gene  (gwd@graphics.cornell.edu)

