This directory contains a simplified version of a drawing editor I wrote.
The original one is in Objective C; this version is hacked together out
of bits of that one, plus other code I had lying around.

    The program is invoked

	gdp classifierfile.cl

    where classifierfile.cl is the name of a classifier file.  A classifier
trained on my gestures is in gdp.cl.  You may wish to experiment with the
-t option, which controls the number of milliseconds that the mouse needs
to be kept still before the gesture is recognized:

	gdp -t 150 gdp.cl

   The operation of gdp is described in the Siggraph paper and the Usenix
paper.  This version lacks some of the features of the one described.  In
particular, the pack gesture (circling a group of objects) does not
automatically select the enclosed objects for packing.  Instead, after it's
recognized the objects to be packed have to be touched by the mouse.

     I've noticed that first time users sometimes have problems because of
the timeout.  In particular, after pressing the mouse button, you must move
the mouse immediately or gdp will think you're done gesturing.

First try the line gesture:
	Position the mouse in the window
	Press the left button and immediately draw a line to the right, say an
		inch long.
	Stop moving the mouse, but keep holding the button down
		your crufty line will be replaced by a nice straight line
		when the gesture is recognized.
	You may rubberband the line as long as the button is held.

The delete gesture:
	Position the mouse on the line you just made.
	Press the left button and draw a single stroke X as follows:
		first segment down and to the right,
		then straight up,
		then down and to the left.
	The line should then be deleted.
	As long as you hold the button down, so will anything else you touch.
	[note: to delete any object, you should begin the gesture on the black
	 part (outline) of the object.  In other words, a rectangle is just the
	 four lines, and does not include the interior.]

The rectangle gesture:
	position the mouse, press the left button, and draw an ``L''
		(down, then to the right)
	Hold the button down, a rectangle is created, which can be rubberbanded

See ../record/README for a description of the other gestures.  Good luck.

