                       Xmpostit--Postit Note (tm) program
                        by David Mischel, Genentech, Inc.


Xmpostit implements a note keeping facility analagous to "real"
Postit Notes (tm).  All notes are created by the "pad" which first
appears when the program begins.  Pressing mouse button 3 (MB3) on the
pad pops up a menu which allows different sized notes to be created.
The actual size can be altered by the local window manager as the user
chooses.

Notes can have a user supplied name at time of creation.  Once
created text can be typed in or pasted via the X CUT BUFFER.  Notes
are saved as files on-line in $HOME/.postitnotes.  When xmpostit
starts it will read all files of the proper format in that directory
and display each note as a "button" on the pad.  The label on the
button is the name of the note.  Pressing the button with MB1 will pop
up the note.  Note text, size and screen location when poped up are
all saved when the note is saved.

Buttons on the individual notes control saving, printing, destroying
and stashing.  Stashing causes the note to popdown and the
corresponding button on the pad to become active.

Xmpostit began life as an attempt to learn the Motif tool kit.  I
chose xpostit because it was a fairly straight forward piece of
software.  Along the way I made a few changes in the interface.
Xmpostit can read xpostit files through v3 but writes a different file
format.  Thus if you already have xpostit notes in $HOME/.postitnotes
and you run xmpostit and save all notes, xpostit may not work properly
when next run.

You must have libXm.a and the Motif include files installed to
compile xmpostit.  Xmpostit was developed and compiled on a VAX 8650
running BSD4.3 with X11R5 and Motif 1.1.3 installed.  I have not
ported it to other platforms so there may be some issues around names
and locations of include files, etc.  R5 contrib installation
procedures should work.  In the source dir type

        xmkmf -a
        make
        make install
        make install.man

good luck and enjoy!

< david

David Mischel
Scientific Computing
Genentech, Inc.
South San Francisco, CA

dm@genie.gene.com

