Copyright 1991 by David A. Curry

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.  The
author makes no representations about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is XPostIt Version 3 for X11 Releases 4 and 5.  XPostIt allows you to
create small notes to yourself in windows on the screen, and save them in
disk files.  This is generally neater than having numerous real Post-it
notes stuck all around the edges of your monitor.

This release of XPostIt has the following changes over the version I made
available when X11 Release 4 was released:

	- Due to numerous requests, there are now widget actions and
	  menu selections to map (show) and unmap (hide) all notes.
	  Pressing CTRL-LeftMouseButton will map all notes; while
	  pressing CTRL-MiddleMouseButton will unmap all notes.  You
	  can change these bindings through the translation table, if
	  you want to.

	  There is no facility for mapping/unmapping a single note at
	  a time, and I'm not really interested in adding one.  But I
	  suppose I will consider nice, clean implementations of such
	  if you send them to me.  You can always do this with a window
	  manager, if you have to.

	- There is a new button in each note, called "Title".  Pressing
	  this button will bring up a dialog box, allowing you to set
	  the title of your note.  This title is displayed in title
	  bars and icons by the window manager.  The title is saved in
	  the disk file for the note; old note files with no titles
	  will still work, however they will be given a default title
	  the first time they are saved.  The default title is
	  "PostItNote #n".

	  There is a problem with titles; at least the twm window
	  manager does not update the icon name (but does update the
	  title bar) when you change a title.  You can make it do so
	  by unmapping all notes and then mapping them again.  My
	  theory is that this is a bug or limitation in twm, not in
	  XPostIt.  If you figure out a fix, let me know.

	- Typing "q" or "Q" in the plaid window now exits XPostIt just
	  as if you select "Exit" from the menu.

	- The position-saving code for saving note positions now works
	  correctly with twm.  I don't know about other window
	  managers, but since twm is "standard", that's the one I'm
	  going to support (so there :-).

	- The postition-saving code should now work correctly with
	  window managers that create virtual roots, like tvtwm.  I
	  have not tested this, since I don't use tvtwm, but the patch
	  came from a tvtwm user.

	- The bug in which all notes would be lost if you exited the X
	  server without exiting XPostIt first has been fixed.

	- The class name is now "XPostit" instead of "Xpostit".  This
	  is as it should be.  Note that this means you'll have to
	  change any resources you've set.

	- The font for labeling the buttons is slightly smaller now,
	  to make all four buttons fit in the smallest note.

	- A couple of compile-time nits for System V and GNU cc have
	  been fixed (but not tested, since I use neither System V
	  nor GNU software).

	- There's now a version string in version.c, so you can tell
	  me what version you're running when you send me fixes. :-)

Building XPostIt is simple.  It comes with an Imakefile (one of the best
parts about X), so you just say

	% xmkmf
	% make

If you don't have xmkmf, then whoever installed your release of X screwed
up.  You can get around this by saying

	% imake -DUseInstalled -I<LIBDIR>/X11/config
	% make

where "<LIBDIR>" should point to wherever your X11 stuff is installed.  If
you can't find imake, then once again whoever installed your release of X
screwed up.  Please bug them, not me.

You can install XPostIt by saying

	% make install

You can install the XPostIt manual page by saying

	% make install.man

Please send all bug reports, fixes, modifications, and features requests
to me.  Please include the version string from version.c.  If you send
diffs, please use "diff -c".

Dave Curry
Purdue University
Engineering Computer Network
West Lafayette, IN 47907
davy@ecn.purdue.edu
