This is the third external distribution of XTrap (V3.2) and the first
version available for MIT's X11 Release 5.  XTrap is an X Server 
extension which facilitates the capturing of server protocol and synthesizing
core input events.  Major bug fixes have been performed in this release
especially in the area of supporting 64-bit word machines.
Additionally, a sixth sample client (xtrapchar) has been added for
exploring the alternate input capabilities of XTrap.

Since this is a source code disribution you must perform a build operation
once you have restored the files onto disk. The distribution is designed to
be restored into a standard X distribution heirarchy as it comes from MIT *or*
an installed DECwindows V2.0 (or later) on VMS.

For X11R5 installations, the files are provided in the contrib tree. The 
install.XTrap shell script located in contrib/extensions/server/xtrap/build 
must be run to "link" all of the xtrap files into the core distribution tree 
and apply the patches to Imakefiles, site.def, and miinitext.c necessary to 
build XTrap into the mit server.

It should be noted that the installation procedures differ for X11/R4, X11/R5,
and VMS.  To ensure correct installation, please use the correct kit (files
in extensions/server/xtrap/build).  Additionally VMS & native X11 kits contain
different environment dependent sources, so if both platforms are desired,
you must copy both kits.

The following are the major changes from Version 3.1a:

1) Build changes for X11R5.

2) Corrected protocol alignment & padding problems with 64-bit word machines
   while maintaining protocol compatibility between V3.1 clients/servers.

3) Fixed XETrapGetVersion() and XETrapGetLastInpTime() requests.

4) New xtrapchar client which converts ASCII character sequences into
   X events.  Useful when exploring alternate input mechanisms to the server
   and/or "remote keyboards".

5) Removed non-XLib transport code.  Due to efficiency/reliability of the
   XLib transport, the usefulness of this was effectively eliminated.  This
   also removed nearly 40% of the code making XTrap much leaner and more
   directly portable.  XESetStream() is no longer needed/available and
   must be removed from your client(s).

6) Added COLOR_REPLIES support for capturing the reply information from
   AllocColor, AllocColorCells, AllocColorPlanes, and AllocNamedColor
   requests.  This is particularly useful for client-less playback 
   applications.  However, since our long term goal is to provide a 
   general mechanism for capturing *all* replies, this support is
   conditionally compiled and the default behavior is to have this
   disabled.  This must be activated via -DCOLOR_REPLIES in the
   XTrapDefines variable in site.def.

7) Fixed SetCursorPosition behavior where extra event was being generated.

8) Fixed infinite loop bug with multiple Trap Context's per client in
   both XECreateTC & XEFreeTC.

9) Fixed bug with relative timestamp calculations.

10) Added library-side versioning in addition to server-side for client/server
    backward compatibility.

11) Changed file names to support systems which limit pathnames to less 
    than 14 characters.

12) Fixed bug in extension where terminating the XTrap client without first
    performing an XEStopTrapRequest() could potentially either cause the
    server to crash or cause subsequent clients to receive duplicate copies
    of events/requests.

13) Added GrabServer mode where XTrap disables all server Grab & Ungrab
    requests.  The default is that server Grab & Ungrab's are *not*
    disabled.

If you encounter problems, have questions, etc. please contact one of
the following via mail, phone, etc. at:

        Dan Coutu                       Ken Miller
	coutu@decvax.dec.com            kmiller@decvax.dec.com
	603-881-0087                    603-881-1836
	..!decwrl!decvax!coutu          ..!decwrl!decvax!kmiller

or paper mail at:

	Digital Equipment Corp.         Digital Equipment Corp.
	Dan Coutu ZKO 3-3/V08           Ken Miller ZKO 2-3/R56
	110 Spitbrook Rd.               110 Spitbrook Rd.
	Nashua, NH 03062                Nashua, NH 03062

Naturally email is preferred and will get the fastest response.


To make the legal folk happy, please review the following:

Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by Digital Equipment Corporation, 
Maynard, MA

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its 
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, 
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
supporting documentation, and that the name of Digital not be
used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
software without specific, written prior permission.  

DIGITAL DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING
ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL
DIGITAL BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR
ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,
ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
SOFTWARE.

